Notes For Section -7
Section 7, Lecture 41
MATH CLASS METHODS
Calculating the absolute value of a number.
We use a method inside a math class in order to calculate the absolute value of a number.

here is the code to calculate the maximum value:
Math.abs(-45.7);



How to round up the numbers to the nearest value?
For that we use ceil and floor.
ceil for rounding up the number to higest possible value.
floor for rounding uo the number to lowest possible value.

this is how the code looks like:

Math.ceil(12.7);
Math.floor(12.7);



How to find out the maximum value from two values
for that we use the max method
here is how the code looks like:
Math.max(number1,number2);
 I.e Math.max(10,20);

Same can be done for finding the minimum value, just replace max by min.



How to find the square toot of a number?
use the sqrt(square root) method from the Math class for that purpose.
Here is how the  code looks like:

Math.sqrt(16);

ARRAYS IN JAVA
What are arrays
When you have to hold multiple values of the same time, in those cases we use arrays.
To understand arrays in a much mode better way, lets go ahead and take an example:

Lets say we want to store a single value in a variable.
In that case we write the code as:
int a=10;

now lets say we want to store multiple integer values instead of a single value, in that case we create an array as follows:
int a[] = new int[10];

Here a is the name of the array, '[]' these square bracket represents that this is an array and not an integer.
10 is a number which represents the size of the array, i.e it specifies the maximum number of elements which the array can hold.

Now an arrays has multiple positions where we could store our data, there positions are called as the index.
for example if we wish to store a number at the first position of array, we write in the code as:

a[0]=10;
 here '0' is the index or the position and 10 is the number which is stored at that particular position.
here is some more explanation:

a[index]=value_stored_at_that_index_position;

Now as we are done storing one value inside the array, we could go ahead and store another value in the same array,
but this time at some different position. Hence we type in the code as:
a[1]=20;

Hence we could keep on storing data into an array.